HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On tonight's "PBS NewsHour":
Russian President
Vladimir Putin will not expel
American diplomats
in response to sanctions imposed
by the Obama
administration.
We look at what lies ahead for
U.S.-Russian
relations in a Trump presidency.
Also ahead: the best of 2016 in
music, a year
of innovation and stunning
comebacks, but
also great loss.
ANN POWERS, NPR: One great thing
about when
we mourn these singers is that
we also always
celebrate and archive their
work, and we're
seeing that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And it's
Friday.
David Brooks and David Corn are
here to analyze
the week's news.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Russian
President Vladimir
Putin today slammed U.S.
sanctions and the
expulsion of Russian diplomats
over election
hacking attacks.
But he said Moscow will not toss
out U.S.
diplomats.
Instead, he invited the children
of American
diplomats to holiday parties at
the Kremlin.
And in a statement, he said
Russia will plan
further steps to restore
relations, based
on the policies of the Trump
administration.
Later, the president-elect
tweeted to say:
"Great move on delay by Vladimir
Putin.
I always knew he was very
smart."
We will return to the Putin
response after
the news summary.
And in the day's other news: A
fragile cease-fire
appeared to hold across Syria,
despite sporadic
shooting.
Diana Magnay of Independent
Television News
reports.
DIANA MAGNAY: It's not as though
there's no
fighting today.
This is a regime airstrike
earlier on near
the city of Hama, but nothing so
severe that
the deal's off yet.
WALID MOALLEM, Syrian Foreign
Minister (through
translator): There is a real
opportunity to
reach a political solution for
the crisis
in Syria that ends the bloodshed
and establishes
the roots for the future of the
country.
DIANA MAGNAY: With the front
lines quiet,
people in opposition areas went
back onto
the streets, just as they had
done in the
early days of the revolution,
not that everyone
here remembers those days, but
the refrain's
familiar: a Syria without Assad,
even if the
outcome's as unclear as ever.
MAN: If you say that if we are
happy with
being Assad in power, of course
we will not
be happy.
And I can make sure for you that
all those
people who are refugees now
either inside
Syria or outside Syria will not
be back to
Syria unless Assad goes away
from his position
as president of Syria.
DIANA MAGNAY: That will be up to
the Russians.
Aleppo was part of this deal,
struck between
Turkey and Russia in two months
of back-and-forth
talks.
With Aleppo now chalked up for
the regime,
it's now up to Putin to see what
pressure
he can bring to bear on Syria's
president
before talks next month in
Kazakstan, if this
cease-fire holds, and that's a
big if.
Along its border, Turkey is
expanding its
facilities for refugees, to
house the tens
of thousands freshly displaced
from Aleppo
through this bitter winter and
beyond.
Russia and Turkey pitching
themselves as regional
power-brokers, guardians against
terror, bringers
of peace, high stakes if they
fail, but the
initiative now is with them.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Back in this
country, a
North Carolina judge blocked a
Republican
bid to strip the incoming
Democratic governor
of some of his powers.
Republicans passed the statute
after Roy Cooper
was elected.
It takes away his control of
election boards.
Cooper sued today, saying the
law is unconstitutional.
The judge stopped it from taking
effect on
Sunday, pending a review.
New numbers confirm that fatal
shootings of
police rose sharply in 2016.
The National Law Enforcement
Officers Memorial
fund reports 64 were shot and
killed in the
line of duty, up 56 percent from
last year.
The total includes 21 officers
killed in ambush-style
attacks in Dallas, Baton Rouge
and elsewhere.
A winter storm socked New
England overnight
and, today, the region's first
strong nor'easter
of the season.
Some areas got as much as two
feet of snow.
Near-white-out conditions hit
Maine, where
snow fell at the rate of three
inches an hour
in some places.
The storm knocked out power to
more than 100,000
homes and businesses.
And Wall Street closed out a
winning year
on a losing note.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gave up 57
points to finish at 19762.
The Nasdaq fell nearly 49
points, and the
S&P 500 slipped 10.
But for the year, the Dow gained
more than
13 percent; the Nasdaq rose 7.5
percent; and
the S&P was up 9.5 percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
U.S.-Russia
relations after President Obama
imposes sanctions;
David Brooks and David Corn take
on the week's
news; a year of triumph and
heartbreak for
music fans; and much more.
We now turn back to the latest
in U.S.-Russia
relations.
For insight into Putin's
reaction to the Obama
administration's leveling of
sanctions against
Russia yesterday, we turn to
Andrew Weiss.
He was director of Russian,
Ukrainian and
Eurasian affairs at the White
House National
Security Council staff.
He's now with the Carnegie
Endowment for International
Peace.
So, what do you make of Putin's
reactions?
ANDREW WEISS, Carnegie Endowment
for International
Peace: Vladimir Putin is an
opportunist, and
he loves being the center of
attention.
So here he has got the entire
world talking
about his incredible magnanimity
in not returning
the favor by expelling U.S.
diplomats or responding
to these sanctions.
A couple of months ago, when
Putin was talking
about the hacking scandal, he
basically said,
a few years ago, no one talked
about Russia.
Now that's all people want to
talk about.
They say bad things, but it's
good for us.
It's all very pleasant.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And do any of
the sanctions
create deterrents enough for
Russia to stop
doing what they have been doing?
ANDREW WEISS: Establishing
deterrents for
a country like Russia to deter
it from conducting
offensive cyber-operations
against the United
States is practically an
impossible task.
What you can do is, you can
expose, you can
name and shame, you can hit a
few key individuals
or key institutions, like the
Obama administration
did yesterday, that might sort
of expose what
Russia is doing, provide public
education,
especially on the eve of
important European
elections.
That's what governments are
doing around the
world, is they're trying to say,
we know what
the Russians are up to.
We can explain it to our
publics.
And hopefully it will not have
the effect
it had in the United States.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What is the
invitations
of the diplomats' children to
the Kremlin
holiday party?
What is that trying to fix?
ANDREW WEISS: I think it's cheap
theatrics
at this point.
It's basically a stunt.
We have had a pattern of
harassment of U.S.
personnel in Moscow that goes
back several
years.
People's apartments are broken
into.
Diplomats are followed.
Children are bothered.
This has been I think an extreme
period, a
very unusual period of Cold
War-style pressure
against our people stationed in
Moscow.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, really,
even in this
moment, he sees the long game.
ANDREW WEISS: Putin looks ahead
and I think
sees continued opportunities.
He has a new U.S. administration
taking office
obviously on January 20.
President-elect Trump has been
saying all
sorts of flattering things,
including as recent
as this afternoon, about how
brilliant Putin
is, what an effective leader he
is.
He has seen all sorts of Western
leaders basically
disappear from the scene, most
obviously Barack
Obama, who has been a nemesis
for him.
So if he looks ahead, he sees
Russia's got
the upper hand in Syria, he's
transformed
the battle on the ground inside
Syria.
He sees a weak Ukraine.
He sees Western Europe divided,
a weakening
E.U.
He has got, I think, a sense of
wind at his
back and more confidence that
the more audacity,
the more surprise, the more the
West is going
to back off.
And a lot of the kind of
aggressive Russian
tactics we have seen are aimed
at exactly
that, be intimidating, be
unpredictable, and
your enemies will back off.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There was some
dissension
among the ranks.
Early in this morning, you
started getting
alerts on your phone that said
Foreign Minister
Lavrov wanted to go ahead and
retaliate by
kicking out U.S. diplomats, and
then within
minutes, Vladimir Putin has
said, no, not
going to do that.
ANDREW WEISS: I think the
Russians have really
got -- you have got to hand it
to them.
They have become masters at the
art of surprise.
Just, I guess, about 14 months
ago, you had
President Putin was coming to
the U.N. General
Assembly.
He was going to be basically
isolated, not
get any meetings.
They announced their dramatic
military intervention
in Syria.
And then Russia was as at the
center of attention
and there was a showdown between
Obama and
Putin in New York.
This is part of that same
script.
It's part of the playbook where
if you force
surprises on people, you invade
Crimea, you
start a covert war in Ukraine,
suddenly the
world has to respond to the
facts that you're
creating.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What are the
prospects for
the relationship with the United
States?
ANDREW WEISS: Well, we don't
know.
President-elect Trump has talked
about how
he's going to reset the reset,
he's going
to team up with Russia to "knock
the hell
out of ISIL."
Those are what explains that are
sort of the
core interests that might unite
the United
States and Russia.
I'm personally rather skeptical
that he's
going to be able to have those
kinds of quick
wins.
There have been many efforts
over the past
year or so between the Obama
administration
and the Russian government to
find some ways
to cooperate on the ground in
Syria.
We have serious definitional
challenges, where
there are groups that the United
States has
supported on the ground in Syria
that the
Russians want to basically paint
with one
big brush and say, oh, they're
all terrorists.
So, I think it's going to be
very hard, given
the corrosive mistrust between
the two governments.
There's basically no trust left
between the
national security establishment,
the career
people who will be serving under
a president-elect
Trump and their Russian
counterparts.
It is going to be very hard to
build that
trust out of the barren
landscape that they're
inheriting.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What does that
win in Syria
or ISIL, what is the cost of
that?
Is it Crimea?
Is it Ukraine?
ANDREW WEISS: We don't know.
And so far the price that
Russians have been
talking about in their
communications with
the United States are
exorbitant.
They're saying the United States
should recognize
the annexation of Crimea.
They're saying the United States
should pay
a penalty for the imposition of
economic sanctions
after the shoot-down of a
civilian airliner
over Eastern Ukraine in July
2014.
These are outlandish demands.
And I think it would be unusual
to expect
that the Trump administration is
somehow going
to grant those wishes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Are there
concerns that
the Trump administration doesn't
see the multiple
dimensions of Vladimir Putin?
ANDREW WEISS: Well, I think we
just don't
know.
We know that this is a
president-elect who
has very little foreign policy
experience.
He's tapped a neophyte to be his
secretary
of state, Rex Tillerson.
These are people who have
records in the business
community.
They have got I think a lot of
credentials
in that area.
But for the issues that have
been at the heart
of U.S.-Russian relations over
the past two-and-a-half
decades and which have created
so mention
tension and so much built-up
resentment and
mistrust, it's not something
that they have
really had to deal with.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You called Rex
Tillerson
a neophyte.
He's a neophyte to government,
but not necessarily
to foreign affairs.
Technically, he might be the
person with the
most connections to Russia in
the Trump administration.
ANDREW WEISS: There's no doubt
that Rex Tillerson's
access and accomplishments in
Russia are dramatic.
He's come from a period of
working in Russia
at the highest levels going back
to the late
1990s.
He knows Putin personally.
He knows Putin's top advisers
personally.
That's all obviously a real
asset.
The question is, does he know a
lot about
the IMF treaty, does he know a
lot about the
harassment of U.S. diplomatic
personnel, does
he follow Syria closely?
My sense is those are issues
that he has not
had to delve into in great
detail.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Andrew Weiss
from the Carnegie
Endowment for International
Peace, thanks
for joining us.
ANDREW WEISS: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Next to the
analysis of
Brooks and Corn.
That's syndicated New York Times
columnist
David Brooks, and "Mother Jones"
Washington
bureau chief David Corn.
All right, David Brooks, let's
start some
of the unilateral steps that
President Obama
has taken just in the last few
weeks.
We are talking about everything
from the Russian
sanctions to the U.N. Security
Council condemnation
-- or allowing the U.N. Security
Council to
go forward in the condemnation
of the Israeli
settlements, preserving large
swathes of land.
As the paper of record, The New
York Times,
said, is this about boxing Trump
in?
DAVID BROOKS: I guess a little.
But what can be done by a
president can be
undone by a president.
What's sort of remarkable is
that, especially
in the Israel and the Russia
cases, you have
got a U.S. citizen, Donald
Trump, siding with
a foreign leader against the
U.S. president.
There is a reason why
president-elects have
tried to remain mute during
their transitional
periods, relatively, because you
just don't
want to be for somebody -- some
other country
against your own government, and
especially
when you're about to take the
helm of that
government.
And there will be a lot of
permanent people
who are just going to be stuck
there who are
now in a war between the
president-elect and
the guy they're currently
serving.
HARI SREENIVASAN: David Corn,
does this violate
the spirit of that smooth
transition that
both gentlemen had that photo-op
in the White
House?
DAVID CORN: Well, President
Obama is still
president until January 20, and
the world
keeps turning.
Now, the Republicans wanted to
call his presidency
over last February, when he
nominated Merrick
Garland to the Supreme Court.
The U.N. sanction vote came up.
It wasn't scheduled by Obama.
And a lot of people think he
should have responded
to the Russian hacking of the
U.S. elections
weeks ago, months ago.
So these happened on his watch.
There's nothing wrong with him
dealing with
it.
The Trump side now seems to be
whining that
he's violating the smooth
transition and trying
to delegitimize Trump.
But coming from Trump, who
pushed the racist
birth conspiracy theory for
years against
Barack Obama, I think Obama has
been very
much a gentleman.
And he has a lot of reason to
just not even
bother to deal with Trump.
HARI SREENIVASAN: How different
is this from
previous presidents on their way
out?
Is it fairly traditional to
leave an exclamation
point at the end?
DAVID CORN: Well, it's kind of.
And I think, depending what is
happening -- when
George W. Bush left, he left
Barack Obama
two raging wars.
And the biggest fight he had was
inside his
own government about whether or
not to pardon
Scooter Libby.
And he was sort of consumed
fighting with
Dick Cheney about that, and
didn't do a lot
I think externally.
And I think he was focused on
trying to, from
a national security perspective,
bring Obama
and his people up to speed, so
they could
take control of these wars.
Bill Clinton had the controversy
with pardons
when he was walking out the
door, Marc Rich
and others, that certainly
tarnished his reputation.
But I think Obama is just doing
what he should
be doing at this point.
HARI SREENIVASAN: David Brooks,
it almost
seems like there is a first 100
day strategy
and at the end of four or eight
years the
last hundred days, to do all the
things that
you wish you could have done,
but this is
on your way out.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
That is not abnormal.
If you look at regulations that
come out of
White Houses, even Republican
White Houses,
there is a ton right at the end
as they try
to jam everything in at the end.
That's reasonably standard.
But there certainly is a pattern
of administrations
that have good transitions,
George W. Bush
to Barack Obama, and
administrations that
have really bad transitions, I
would say Eisenhower
to John F. Kennedy.
I would say this is beginning to
look like
a bad transition, as they begin
to argue even
at the presidential level, which
is more or
less unprecedented.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Let's start
talking a little
bit about Russia.
Will the sanctions that we have
imposed keep
the Russian hackers out?
DAVID BROOKS: No.
No.
It's so disproportionate.
They interfered in our
elections, and we like
penalized a few of them.
Whatever they're doing
underground, we don't
know.
No, this is going to be a big
issue.
And I have to say the Obama --
the Trump position
is, A, mystifying, but, B,
doomed.
He has a nice little Putin
romance going on
right now.
I think we're going to get out
the hankies,
because this is going to turn
into an ugly
relationship within a year or
two.
The things that make them
similar -- their
machismo, their expansionary
braggadocio -- is
going to turn them I think into
bitter and
dangerous enemies.
We will look back on this moment
where we
thought Putin and Trump were
sort of close
as a moment of bitter irony,
when they get
into a schoolyard display
against each other,
amping up each other's worst
tendencies and
putting the two countries in
some sort of
scary position.
That's just my feel of how
things are going
to get in the next year.
DAVID CORN: That may be the
best-case scenario.
I don't necessarily see things
going that
way.
I still am mystified, to use
your word, about
why Trump is out there tweeting
praise of
Vladimir Putin these days, and
still kind
of denying and dismissing
whether the hacking
happened or the seriousness of
it.
And people out there keep
asking, what is
behind this bromance?
Before the election, I reported
on a story
about a counterintelligence
officer from another
service sending reports to the
FBI saying
that his sources in Russia were
saying that
Moscow tried for years to
cultivate and co-opt
Donald Trump.
I'm not saying that happened.
I'm saying I hope the FBI took a
strong look,
because it is really hard to
believe that
a president-elect would be so
callous in how
he approaches this issue and so
dismissive
of the seriousness of it.
And so maybe he will turn on
Putin, as you
suggest, but maybe there is
something else
there in which he is enamored
with Putin for
some reason that we really don't
understand
yet.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about the
president-elect's
position that we have got to
move on, these
are all essentially ploys to try
delegitimize
my win?
DAVID CORN: Well, I think he
should be delegitimized
for many reasons.
And his response to this hacking
is also cause
for delegitimization.
But to say we should move on,
when the bedrock
of American democracy, the
sanctity of our
elections, has been messed with,
just raises
suspicions.
It would be so easy for him to
say the obvious
thing: This is terrible.
We're going to look into it.
And then we're going to try to
prevent this
from happening again in the
future.
But his denial of it happening
or its seriousness
shows that there is something
really amiss
from his end of it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: David Brooks,
what happens
in that conversation with
intelligence officials
that Donald Trump said he is
going to take
in order to get to the bottom of
this or get
to a common set of facts?
It's already a fairly tense
relationship with
the intelligence community.
DAVID BROOKS: Of course I don't
know what's
going on in that meeting on in
the mind of
Donald Trump.
But I do know one of the things
President
Obama was struck by was how much
time he spent
on cyber-security as president.
It was one of the big surprises
as president.
And one of the things he said
was that, in
the years ahead, the next
president will be
spending even more time.
And cyber-security isn't a thing
that goes
away after this election.
It's a constant flow.
And Russia has a very
sophisticated, advanced
attack on U.S. businesses and
U.S. government
and U.S. institutions.
And it's not like Donald Trump
is going to
be walking away from this.
He will be spending a lot of
time on it, if
he's any sort of normal
president.
DAVID CORN: Well, maybe, but we
don't know.
He keeps dismissing the
seriousness and even
tweets out or puts a statement
saying, you
know, computers, it's kind of
complicated.
You know, a lot of things
happen.
It remains to be seen what he is
serious about
on any policy level.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Well, speaking
of policy
level, one of the things that we
saw was that
the U.N. Security Council was
allowed to go
forward with the condemnation of
Israeli settlements,
that the United States didn't
use its veto
power.
Right move?
DAVID CORN: I think it's a
policy that's very
defensible, in that, right now,
the settlements
are a complete obstacle or a
threat to a two-state
solution.
Now, I think Netanyahu and the
far right of
Israel don't believe in a
two-state solution,
and they just can't come out and
say it yet.
Now, Donald Trump's designated
ambassador
to Israel has said that quite
clearly.
But if there's no two-state
solution, then
Israel is on the path to being
an occupying
nation without full political
rights for all
its inhabitants.
And, you know, there have been
other Israeli
leaders who have talked about
the prospect
of a form of apartheid in
Israel.
So, I think the Obama position
and the majority
position of American Jews and a
lot of Americans
is a two-state solution.
Settlements get in the way of
that.
If they're not stopped soon,
there is no prospect
for that type of solution.
DAVID BROOKS: Now we disagree.
I think it's a completely
indefensible policy.
Settlements are an obstacle to
peace and to
a two-state solution.
There's no question about that.
They are about the fifth or
sixth most important
obstacle right now.
The fact that there could be an
ISIS West
Bank, the fact that the
Palestinian government
in Gaza doesn't even acknowledge
Israel's
right to exist, the fact of
constant terror,
delegitimization campaigns in
the Palestinian
schools, these are all much
bigger facts.
And for the Obama administration
to focus
on this one fact, almost, not to
the expense,
but to diminish some of the
others which are
much more important, is to cast
all the blame
on Israel and to take the U.N.
policy toward
Israel, which has been
longstanding, and sort
of surrender to it.
Netanyahu, Bibi Netanyahu, froze
the settlements
and offered to go toward a
two-state solution.
The Palestinians didn't take him
up on it.
Historically, we have had a
series of these
offers.
And the settlements themselves
are not the
keystone here.
And it seems to me myopic and
bizarre that
at the last moment, the Obama
administration
would surrender the whole
balanced array of
policies that are obstacles to
peace and focus
on the one that is most
detrimental to Israel.
DAVID CORN: Well, I think John
Kerry's speech
was not just about settlements.
It was about the whole large
path to peace
and what's been happening to it.
And it was one of the -- I think
one of the
most thorough policy statements
that you have
seen from any secretary of state
on a contentious
issue.
So, I think that it's not just
myopia.
The vote obviously was not
scheduled by the
administration.
I'm sure they would rather it
had not happened.
But I think they also wanted to
send a clear
signal, because they don't
believe Netanyahu
is serious about a two-state
solution.
And the rapid expansion of the
settlements
is something that actually could
be stopped,
and may not even be up for
negotiation, but
would be a good unilateral move
on Israel's
part.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about the
choice of
David Friedman as the
ambassador?
What does that do to the
situation?
DAVID BROOKS: Well, that just
shows how polarized
the whole situation has become,
because the
Obama administration has focused
the onus
on Israel and the settlements.
And then the Trump potential
administration
apparently is pro-settlement,
and almost against
a two-state solution.
So we have got two polar
opposite Israel policies,
which really break what had been
a pretty
decent bipartisan consensus that
we have got
to have a two-state solution, we
sort of know
what the border is going to look
like, we
sort of know what East Jerusalem
is going
to look like.
And no administration has ever
said, as the
Obama administration sort of
implied, that
Israel wouldn't have access to
the Western
Wall, to the East Jerusalem.
And that was also in the
resolution.
And all administrations have not
really gone
on the U.N. train.
And so what we're seeing is a
complete bifurcation
to two wrong Israeli policies.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
finally, staying
in the neighborhood, does it
matter that the
U.S. is not a part of whatever
this cease-fire
in Syria is at the moment?
DAVID BROOKS: I think it
matters, in that,
if you withdraw from the game,
you're out
of the game.
And we have withdrawn from the
game.
And we said Assad has to go.
He's going to stay.
So we're out of the game.
And they don't have to deal us
in when it
comes to finding a solution.
But that was our choice.
That was our choice to withdraw
from that
particular game.
DAVID CORN: We were behind two
cease-fires
this year, one in February that
lasted a few
months, and one in September
that lasted about
a week.
We have no idea how long this is
going to
last.
There's a great possibility that
some on the
rebel side will start fighting
amongst themselves,
because some of the rebel
groups, the more
fundamentalist, are not part of
the cease-fire.
So, if there is anything that
stops the fighting
and stops the civilian
casualties, that's
a good thing now for a pause.
But I'm not very optimistic this
is going
to last.
And I do think John Kerry has
tried awfully
hard to work with Russia and
others to have
a lasting, significant
cease-fire.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
David Corn of
"Mother Jones," David Brooks of
The New York
Times, David and David, thank
you very much.
DAVID CORN: Happy new year.
DAVID BROOKS: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Happy new
year.
Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
another look
at the newest edition to the
National Mall:
the National Museum of African
American History
and Culture; and songwriter Josh
Ritter opens
up about the doubt he feels on
stage.
But first: a broader look at
music and some
of the best work of this past
year.
As we say goodbye to 2016, we
also finish
our week-long series on the best
of arts.
Jeffrey Brown is our guide once
again.
JEFFREY BROWN: Of all the
popular art forms
we have talked about this week,
delving into
the huge and diverse world of
music necessarily
means touching on just a slice
of the large
pie.
Two music critics are here to
help us with
some of their own best of the
year.
Ann Powers of NPR and Mikael
Wood of The Los
Angeles Times.
Welcome to both of you.
Ann, let's just start with -- a
few albums
really dominated the year.
We might as well start there.
ANN POWERS, NPR: Absolutely.
Well, Beyonce's "Lemonade" was a
multimedia
phenomenon with the visual side,
a wonderful
album and people talked about it
all year,
very political album.
Right next to that was David
Bowie's "Blackstar"
as equally lauded and
celebrated.
Of course, we lost David Bowie
this year.
So it was an interesting mix of
a young artist
at the top of her game and an
elder making
a final statement.
JEFFREY BROWN: Mikael Wood,
let's start to
fill out your list here.
Give us a few of your -- what
stood out for
you.
MIKAEL WOOD, The Los Angeles
Times: Beyonce
and Bowie are both on my list.
You have also got the young
country singer
Maren Morris, who was doing a
lot of interesting
things, sort of taking country
into an old-fashioned
way, but also making it very
contemporary
at the same time.
You had a couple of great
hip-hop records
from Kanye West, who everybody
knows, of course,
but a younger rapper too from
Chicago called
Chance the Rapper, who made a
sort of gospel
rap record that's very personal,
but also
sort of clearly situated in his
hometown and
all of its various struggles,
really interesting
record.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so,
Ann, I made
you start with the ones
everybody knows.
But fill out a little more of
your top five
list or so.
ANN POWERS: Well, speaking of
country singers,
there's a wonderful young singer
out of Nashville,
Margo Price, who made a very
traditional country
record called "Midwest Farmer's
Daughter,"
with contemporary verb and
voice.
And that's one of my favorites
of the year.
JEFFREY BROWN: That has a good
title, too,
right, "Midwest Farmer's
Daughter."
ANN POWERS: Yes.
She is a Midwest farmer's
daughter.
And Jack White's record label
Third Man put
it out.
So, it is country and cool.
I really love Chance the Rapper,
which Mikael
mentioned.
Also, Beyonce's sister Solange
Knowles released
a very beautiful, introspective
album called
"A Seat at the Table" that again
reflected
the political moment in a very
different way.
If Beyonce was forceful and out
there, Solange
was quiet and thinking and
meditating and
dreaming.
And that was actually NPR
Music's number one
record of the year.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, Mikael, so
we're talking.
I want to bring in performances.
We're talking mostly about
recordings.
But is there a performance or
two that stood
out for you this year?
MIKAEL WOOD: I think Beyonce at
the Super
Bowl was -- just sort of blew
everybody...
JEFFREY BROWN: She's
inescapable, isn't she,
in this conversation, right?
MIKAEL WOOD: Oh, she's the
essence of inescapability.
I mean, think of it like this.
It wasn't actually's Beyonce's
Super Bowl
this year.
It was Coldplay's.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's right.
MIKAEL WOOD: And all anybody
remembers is
Beyonce, which shows you how she
stole the
show.
I think Adele's tour as well.
I saw her here in L.A. And what
an interesting
tour.
In a year when pop was
technologically forward-looking
and engaged with politics, here
comes Adele
with just a super old-fashioned
show.
I saw her in the same week that
I saw Barbra
Streisand.
And the two had some very --
real similarities.
She's standing on the stage with
a sort of
small orchestra.
She wears one dress throughout
the night.
There's very little spectacle.
She's just standing there
singing these incredible
songs and making a huge impact
with all her
tens of thousands of people who
came to see
her, just an outlier, but also
so interestingly
old-fashioned.
JEFFREY BROWN: Ann Powers, some
performances
you saw?
ANN POWERS: Well, actually,
along similar
lines to Adele, I think the
Dixie Chicks'
comeback was a huge story of the
year, again,
not a technological, futuristic
show, but
a triumphant return of a band
who had, of
course, been somewhat banished
from country
music after their lead singer,
Natalie Maines,
had made some remarks about then
President
George W. Bush.
They have come back, roaring
back.
I saw them play here, a hometown
show, tens
of thousands of people, mostly
women, singing
along.
And of course, the Dixie Chicks,
because I
got to mention her again,
brought Beyonce
on at CMA Awards to do Beyonce's
song "Daddy
Lessons," and that was maybe the
televised
moment of the year, really just
a super women
power moment.
JEFFREY BROWN: What about --
Mikael, I will
start with you on this -- that
when you think
about trends in the music world,
and, again,
Beyonce, we will have to mention
her, because
this continuing evolution of the
distribution
of music, she was part of that
this year,
but other people, too.
MIKAEL WOOD: Yes.
No, streaming, this -- 2016 was
the year that
streaming became the dominant
sort of way
that people are experiencing
music, at least
young people.
And you saw that with record
after record,
whether it was Kanye, whether it
was Beyonce,
whether it was Rihanna, whether
it was Drake.
People were finding out about
music and listening
to it, engaging with it through
streaming.
We will sort of see where that
takes everything.
We will sort of see what that
does to the
way people listen.
But there was just absolutely no
doubt that
that was the dominant
distribution model this
year.
And, also, it leads to all kinds
of interesting
conversations about, you know,
various exclusives.
The singer Frank Ocean, for
instance, you
could only go to one place to
hear his record,
which just sort of changes the
whole economy
of pop music, which I think is
going to be
huge in the next few years.
JEFFREY BROWN: And, Ann,
finally, just the
one thing you alluded to with
the passing
of David Bowie, but this was a
year in which
a number of major musicians,
major stars were
lost.
ANN POWERS: Absolutely, Bowie's
death at the
beginning of the year.
Of course, the greatest musician
of my generation,
Prince, died this year, and
we're still feeling
that.
Leonard Cohen, we lost, and many
others, the
soul singer Sharon Jones, Guy
Clark, Merle
Haggard here in the country
world in Nashville.
But one great thing about when
we mourn these
singers is that we also
celebrate and archive
their work.
And we're seeing that.
There is more David Bowie
material available
online than ever before.
So, though he is lost, his music
lives on.
And we are preserving it as
fans.
And that, to me, is a great
legacy.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, music
of the past
and of 2016.
Ann Powers of NPR, Mikael Wood
of The L.A.
Times, thank you both very much.
ANN POWERS: Thanks so much.
MIKAEL WOOD: Happy to do it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: As we close
out 2016, we
have been thinking of the loss
of our friend
and colleague Gwen Ifill.
And one of her favorite stories
of the past
year was the opening of the
widely acclaimed
National Museum of African
American History
and Culture.
Here's a reprise of that story,
Gwen in the
field doing what she loved to do
and having
fun in the process.
Take a look.
JOYCE BAILEY, Museum Donor: We
can see she
has her camera right there.
That was one of her photographic
days.
GWEN IFILL: Joyce Bailey's
legacy turned out
to be worth more than money.
Her mother, Lois Alexander Lane
left her a
treasure trove from the museum
she created,
the Harlem Institute of Fashion,
costumes,
dresses sewn and worn by slaves,
celebrities
and by civil rights icons.
One of the things I think people
are surprised
to know, or to remember, is that
Rosa Parks
was a seamstress.
JOYCE BAILEY: Yes, she was.
She was actually carrying the
dress that the
museum now has on the day that
she was arrested.
It's a beautiful yellow with
brown stripes
in it.
It's beyond belief.
You really just have to see it.
GWEN IFILL: Beginning this
weekend, thousands
of people will stream into the
brand-new National
Museum of African American
History and Culture
to see elements of Bailey's
collection and
countless other priceless items.
There is this, an airplane flown
cross-country
to the museum once piloted by
the all-black
Tuskegee Airmen, the casket of
14-year-old
Emmett Till, lynched in 1955 for
whistling
at a white woman, the writings
of abolitionist
Frederick Douglass, shackles
discovered on
a sunken ship that brought
hundreds of slaves
to America, and from a South
Carolina plantation,
a fully restored slave cabin,
the dress Marian
Anderson wore when she sang at
the Lincoln
Memorial, and costumes from "The
Wiz," the
all-black Broadway musical based
on "The Wizard
of Oz," donated from Joyce
Bailey's collection.
This is as an amazing place,
chockful of the
expected and the expected.
One thing missing, major
artifacts from the
Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.
His family apparently decided to
hold onto
some of the most famous
memorabilia, including
the Bible that President Obama
used to take
the oath of office in 2013.
In any case, it fell to museum
director Lonnie
Bunch and his band of curators
to sort through
what turned into a rush of
donations.
LONNIE BUNCH, Director, National
Museum of
African American History and
Culture: But,
when I saw them, I said, we are
going to tell
that story.
And I just love, from "The Wiz,"
I just love
how they look.
I just think they're so
distinctive.
They obviously speak volumes
about Geoffrey
Holder.
GWEN IFILL: The designer.
LONNIE BUNCH: The designer.
And, plus, they're just so
beautiful.
GWEN IFILL: It was a big moment
at the time.
LONNIE BUNCH: Absolutely.
GWEN IFILL: From sobering
memorabilia like
rebellion leader Nat Turner's
Bible, to 20th
century musical memories, Chuck
Berry's cherry
red Cadillac, and Parliament
Funkadelic's
iconic Mothership, here lit up
and sheathed
in plastic in preparation for
the opening.
LONNIE BUNCH: During concerts,
it would come
down, and George Clinton would
get out.
So it'd be this notion that he
was from another
planet.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Which he kind of
was.
LONNIE BUNCH: Which he still is.
GWEN IFILL: The $540 million
project, a century
in the making, and the first
green museum
on the National Mall, captures
the sweep of
African-American history.
So, what do we have here?
LONNIE BUNCH: This is one of my
great treasures.
What I love is what my staff is
able to find.
And this is a playbill from
Newcastle, England,
in 1857 that is from Ira
Aldridge's career.
Ira Aldridge, the great black
thespian that
couldn't get jobs in the United
States as
a great actor, classical actor,
had to go
to Europe.
GWEN IFILL: Othello, who
everyone now thinks
of as a character always played
by a black
actor.
LONNIE BUNCH: Exactly.
But it was always in blackface.
GWEN IFILL: Galleries are
devoted to breakthroughs
in sports and performance.
LONNIE BUNCH: The joy of Prince,
and I love
the Michael Jackson fedora.
I just capture that.
And, obviously, the "Soul Train"
costume.
GWEN IFILL: "Soul Train" costume
is a little
alarming.
(LAUGHTER)
LONNIE BUNCH: Well, it is,
because we thought
that was cool.
GWEN IFILL: We.
I don't know about we.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Speak for yourself.
GWEN IFILL: This is cool.
Bunch, a former president of the
Chicago Historical
Society, shepherded the project
to completion,
wooing Congress for half the
money, and soliciting
private donations from
millionaires like Oprah
Winfrey and philanthropist David
Rubenstein.
But he also appealed to
individuals, families,
churches, fraternities and
sororities, who
handed over gems like James
Baldwin's inkwell
and Malcolm X's tape recorder.
Advance tickets flew out the
door, 5,000 of
them in 18 minutes one day.
On this journey you have been to
get to this
point with this museum, what has
been the
biggest surprise for you along
the way?
LONNIE BUNCH: I think I have
been stunned
by the excitement and the way
people really
care.
There are times I will walk in
an airport
and people will just sort of
give me the thumbs
up, or I will walk down the
street and church
ladies will come to me and say
they're praying
for me.
So, I think the fact that this
means so much
to so many people has been the
biggest surprise
for me.
GWEN IFILL: As with other
Smithsonian museums,
one building cannot begin to
hold its collection.
Conservator Antje Neumann has
helped preserve
the collection at the museum's
facility in
a Washington suburb.
ANTJE NEUMANN, Conservator,
National Museum
of African American History and
Culture: There's
always the balance between
preservation and
exhibition, and allowing the
public to see
the national treasures, and then
also balancing
that with preserving it for
future generations.
It's lovely to have a place to
highlight the
struggles, the causes and the
progression
that many people and the
contributions many
people have done in this
country.
GWEN IFILL: It falls to Neumann
to repair
Shaquille O'Neal's size 20 shoe,
to prepare
a stool from Muhammad Ali's gym,
to restore
worn pages of the first book of
black poetry,
and to spiff up funk singer
Bootsy Collins'
bright yellow leather costume.
ANTJE NEUMANN: It just needs a
bit -- a little
bit of cleaning in order to make
it ready
for presentation, as it has been
used a lot
on stage.
GWEN IFILL: Collins' outfit
occupies a place
of honor inside the new
building, which is
a work of art itself.
The corona, the signature
exterior feature,
is made of 230 tons of
bronze-colored aluminum
panels, 3,600 in all.
Lead architect Phil Freelon
oversaw the building's
striking design.
PHIL FREELON, Lead Architect:
Many of the
buildings on the Mall are
marble, granite,
concrete, lighter in color.
This building has a variation in
how it appears.
So, on certain days, in certain
lighting conditions,
it can be very vibrant and
bright.
And other times of the day or in
the evening,
it is darker.
So there is this interesting
dynamic of changing
appearance of the building.
GWEN IFILL: Within view, the
Washington Monument
and even a glimpse of the White
House, which
Michelle Obama famously noted
was itself built
by slaves.
Bunch says this makes race an
integral part
of the American experience.
But, in this country, we are so
nervous about
talking about race, about
engaging.
We keep having national
conversations about
race, and it seems that this
building itself
is a big conversation.
Do you -- did you encounter
along the way
any resistance to the notion
that we talk
about Americans only by race?
LONNIE BUNCH: I think there was
fear that
we would be a place that might
be divisive,
that people wouldn't want to
talk about race,
and that we would force them to
talk about
race.
I think there was a great
concern that, would
this just be a museum by black
people for
black people?
And I think we had to counter
that, both by
the kind of stories we told, by
the way we
tried to say, this is a story of
America through
an African-American lens.
GWEN IFILL: Joyce Bailey's
mother could not
have foreseen this day, but she
did see the
value of preserving black
history.
Lois Alexander passed away in
2007, leaving
her daughter with a window into
history.
But didn't you feel a little
emotional about
letting it go?
JOYCE BAILEY: I was very happy
about letting
it go, because I knew my
mother's legacy would
continue.
GWEN IFILL: Curators think about
legacy too.
Lonnie Bunch is still looking
ahead.
LONNIE BUNCH: I want to make
sure that curators
50 years from now can tell the
story of today,
if that's what they want to
tell.
So, I hope this museum will
continue to evolve,
continue to change, because it
really has
to be a place that is the great
convener,
that can bring anybody and
everybody into
a conversation around race.
GWEN IFILL: From groundbreaking
in 2012 to
open doors this week, America
preserved, America
celebrated, right in the
nation's front yard.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The story
originally aired
in September, one of Gwen's
favorites and
one of our favorite stories from
2016.
We looked at the best books of
2016 earlier
this week, and both our guests
agreed a standout
this year was a book that
examined the cascading
impact poverty has on housing.
Jeff is back with this reprise.
JEFFREY BROWN: Every year in
this country,
families are evicted from their
homes, not
by the tens of thousands or by
the hundreds
of thousands, but by the
millions, that from
a new book that explores a huge,
but little
discussed phenomenon in America
today.
"Evicted: Poverty and Profit in
the American
City" follows the lives of eight
Milwaukee
families, black and white.
Author Matthew Desmond lived
among them in
2008 to 2009.
He's a sociologist, a professor
at Harvard
and a winner of a MacArthur
Fellowship last
year.
And welcome to you.
MATTHEW DESMOND, Author,
"Evicted: Poverty
and Profit in the American
City": Thank you.
JEFFREY BROWN: Eviction is far
more prevalent
than most people think and far
less part of
the discussion around poverty in
this country.
Why do you think that's the
case?
MATTHEW DESMOND: I think we
focus a lot on
jobs.
We focus a lot on mass
incarceration and welfare
reform.
But housing has been left out of
the debate
a little bit.
We have focused on public
housing, and we
have focused on neighborhoods,
but the private
rental market, where a vast
majority of low-income
families are living, has been
largely overlooked.
But here is this market that's
taking most
of what low-income families are
making.
There's a...
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: An incredible
amount, percentage
of income.
I mean, that's really striking.
MATTHEW DESMOND: Yes.
Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Seventy, 80, 90
percent.
MATTHEW DESMOND: Yes, that's
what I saw when
I was living with families in
Milwaukee.
And we reached a point today
that we know
that the majority of low-income
renters are
paying most of what they have
just on rent
and to keep the lights on.
JEFFREY BROWN: I said you
followed eight families.
Pick one person to explain sort
of how people
fall into this and how hard it
is to get out
of it.
MATTHEW DESMOND: Yes, yes.
I'm thinking of Arlene.
You know, Arlene was a single
mom.
She had two young boys.
And when I met her, she was
living in a pretty
run-down apartment in a
low-income neighborhood
and giving 88 percent of her
income on rent.
And she was facing terrible
choices.
You know, should I buy food or
pay the rent?
Should I contribute some money
to the funeral
or pay the rent?
And someone like Arlene,
eviction isn't necessarily
the result of irresponsibility.
It's more inevitable.
JEFFREY BROWN: They're making
some bad choices,
but you're showing how it's a
kind of -- almost
a vicious cycle, right, of the
eviction playing
into those choices.
MATTHEW DESMOND: If you're
someone like Arlene
that's paying almost everything
you have to
the landlord, a very small
divergence can
invite an eviction.
The book opens with her
14-year-old hitting
a car with a snowball, you know,
and the man
jumping out, kicking in the
door, and that
causing the landlord to evict
the family.
Was that a bad choice?
Eviction isn't just a condition
of poverty.
It's also a cause of it.
It's making things worse.
JEFFREY BROWN: You show the
rawness of what
an eviction -- I mean, you
capture what it
looks like.
MATTHEW DESMOND: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Describe that.
I mean, take an example of what
perhaps struck
you even the first time you
actually saw what
that's like, when you see
everything thrown
out of the house.
MATTHEW DESMOND: I remember
seeing Arlene
get evicted in early January.
It was the coldest day on record
in Milwaukee.
You know, the weathermen said it
would be
40 degrees below with the
windchill.
And seeing a family's things
piled on a curb,
seeing children forced from
their homes, seeing
the things taken by movers and
put in bonded
storage, and often, kind of,
taken to the
dump when families can't keep up
with those
payments, it's a violent act,
eviction.
It can leave a deep mark.
And we know it leaves a mark on
families that
experience it.
JEFFREY BROWN: It leaves a mark
in terms of,
obviously, their budget, but a
psychological
mark is what you're really
documenting.
MATTHEW DESMOND: Yes, that's
absolutely right.
It affects your spirit.
You know, we know that mothers
who are evicted,
two years later have higher
rates of depression.
We know that suicides attributed
to evictions
or foreclosures doubled between
2005 and 2010.
So, eviction not only causes you
to lose your
home and your things and your
community, but
also has deep effects on the way
you see yourself
and your mental health.
JEFFREY BROWN: You also got a
couple of landlords
to talk to you and let you
follow them around.
MATTHEW DESMOND: I thought that
was crucial.
I thought, if I really wanted to
understand
how housing is causing poverty
in America,
I needed to get landlords'
perspectives.
I didn't understand why they
evicted me, but
not you.
I needed to understand what
makes them tick.
And there is a business model at
the bottom
of the market.
And the one thing I found that
surprised me
was that landlords that are
operating in very
poor neighborhoods can make a
decent profit,
an extreme profit in some cases.
JEFFREY BROWN: The eviction
becomes part of
the profit, right?
I mean, it can be -- it can be
beneficial
to them to evict somebody, bring
somebody
else in, not put much into the
actual rental
property.
MATTHEW DESMOND: That's right.
And for some landlords, eviction
is costly,
and it does take money, but, for
others, it's
part of the business model.
And the short answer to that is,
it's more
efficient to evict a family than
to keep up
payments or to keep up
maintenance on your
property.
And you can do that because
families are so
strapped, they're giving so much
of their
income to rent, that if they
call a building
inspector or report a housing
problem, landlords
can evict that family, not
because retaliatory
evictions are legal, but because
you can,
at any time, evict a family who
are behind.
JEFFREY BROWN: You also write
about your own
experience in doing this, right?
MATTHEW DESMOND: Right.
JEFFREY BROWN: Trying to see how
they live,
almost trying to live as they
live.
Did you feel satisfied in the
end with what
you were able to do?
Because you also write in the
afterwards of
how heartbreaking a lot of this
was to see,
and even the personal toll it
took on you.
MATTHEW DESMOND: I learned not
only about
pain and denial of basic human
needs, but
I also learned about humor, and
strength and
courage in the face of massive
adversity.
And it did have an effect on my
life, personally.
But I think the stories that I
write about
also buoyed me, you know, and
left me with
a deep sense of thankfulness and
just an impression
that people that I met in
Milwaukee refuse
to be reduced to their
hardships.
They're so much more than that,
but the extent
of poverty in our cities today
is reducing
people born for better things.
JEFFREY BROWN: Let me ask you,
finally, about
what should be done.
You do, at the end, advocate for
a few things,
including creating a kind of
universal housing
voucher.
What would be the single most
important thing
you would like to see happen?
MATTHEW DESMOND: I think we, as
a nation,
need to figure out, do we
believe that housing
is a right in this country?
And I think that we should
answer yes, because,
without stable, decent housing,
everything
else falls apart.
And I think taking this program
that's already
working, housing vouchers, so
instead of paying
88 percent of your income to
rent, Arlene
would only pay 30 percent of her
income, and
she could take that voucher
anywhere she wants,
as long as her housing isn't too
expensive
or too shoddy.
That would fundamentally change
the face of
poverty in America today.
We could make evictions rare
again, and decrease
family homelessness, but only if
we, as a
country, kind of accept the fact
that housing
is central to human flourishing
and economic
mobility.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
book is "Evicted:
Poverty and Profit in the
American City."
Matthew Desmond, thank you so
much.
MATTHEW DESMOND: Thanks for
having me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Songwriter
Josh Ritter didn't
make our critics' list of the
best of 2016,
but he also had a good year, on
tour and recording
music for the movie "The
Hollars."
We caught up with Ritter in
Washington playing
at the 9:30 Club in our latest
edition of
IMHO: In My Humble Opinion.
JOSH RITTER, Musician: I have
been writing
songs and playing music for
almost 20 years.
JOSH RITTER, Musician: I have
been writing
songs and playing music for
almost 20 years.
I began in my childhood bedroom,
moved to
open mics and then to opening
for larger artists.
And now I get to play my own
shows in venues
around the world.
I'm not Rihanna, but I have
always considered
myself to have
a healthy, growing career.
I
get to make the music I want to
make with
the people I want to make it.
I have sold out some theaters
you have heard
of.
And my family and I are able to
live a comfortable
life.
Enjoy this time, those close to
me say.
It's all happening for you.
And yet, at the strangest
moments, I find
it impossible to do anything of
the sort.
In the middle of a show,
sometimes in the
middle of applause itself, I
find myself certain
that my wonderful audience will
suddenly realize
that I'm a fake and that my
music has been
terrible all along.
Will their collective come
during the show
itself, causing a slow
hemorrhage of silhouettes
passing through the exits never
to return,
or will people be kinder, stay
dutifully to
the end and then shake their
heads softly
with friends as they trail down
the street?
What of my band?
What of the people I work with?
How long until they see that I'm
a sham?
It's thoughts like these that
rob joy from
the very moments when joy is
most abundant.
So, here is how I'm trying to
approach such
thoughts these days.
I'm trying to remember that,
while I'm an
artist, I am many other things
as well.
I'm a father and a partner, a
brother, son
and friend.
These are all roles that I will
fill, even
if the bottom suddenly falls out
of my career.
I think about my heroes, folks
like Leonard
Cohen and Neil Young and
Radiohead, who have
followed their inspiration to
forbidding places,
making some of their finest,
most adventurous
work without reassurance of any
kind that
it would be appreciated or
understood.
Self-doubt is a very persistent
and difficult
feeling to overcome.
Often, I find it impossible to
write because
of it.
Nothing feels correct.
Nothing feels new.
Perhaps I don't have anything to
say, so I
shouldn't say anything at all.
During this time, I try and
surround myself
with the unfamiliar, movies,
books and music
that I don't normally listen to.
In those moments, when I fear
that I'm losing
joy to mediocrity, self-delusion
and doubt,
I'm trying to open up my heart
to the future.
I don't know what will happen in
my life.
I have no idea what will become
of the next
album, the next show, the next
song.
All I know is that with the
future comes the
chance for many great and
wonderful things
to happen.
It is that future to which I
must turn.
It's hard work, but I'm trying
hard.
HARI SREENIVASAN: On the
"NewsHour" online
right now: Poet Shelley Girdner
had had a
HARI SREENIVASAN: On the
"NewsHour" online
right now: Poet Shelley Girdner
had had a
very tough year when her poem
"New Year's
Day" suddenly came to her,
offering her a
blank page to start over.
Head there to hear her read that
poem on our
Web site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
As the Obama presidency comes to
an end, we
begin a series for the first two
weeks of
January, "The Obama Years," a
look back at
his terms as president, the
accomplishments
and the failures.
We start on Monday, reviewing
his efforts
to preserve America's natural
lands and waters
by turning them into monuments.
Washington Post White House
bureau chief Juliet
Eilperin puts Obama's actions
into context.
JULIET EILPERIN, The Washington
Post: The
president has tried to broaden
the definition
of, what is American history and
what is our
history?
And so he really has focused on
recognizing
areas that, for example,
recognize everything
from black history, to LGBT
history, women's
history, and Native American
history.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Our look at
the Obama years
starting on Monday.
Tonight on "Washington Week":
more on how
the Obama administration's
actions against
Russia and the war of words over
the stalled
Middle East peace process have
created tensions
between the outgoing president
and the president-elect
-- later tonight on "Washington
Week."
On "PBS NewsHour Weekend"
Saturday: A war
reporter grapples with PTSD
after extensive
time covering the war in Iraq
and the aftermath
of terror attacks -- tomorrow
night on "PBS
NewsHour Weekend."
And we will be right back here
on Monday,
when we start our series "The
Obama Years."
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.